{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Ape\par
\b0\fs22 Medium beast, unaligned \par
Armor Class 12 Hit Points 19 (3d8 + 6) Speed 30ft., climb 30ft. \par
STR 16 (+3) \par
DEX 14 (+2) \par
CON 14 (+2) \par
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3 Senses passive Perception 13 Languages Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) \par
ACTIONS \par
INT 6 (-2) \par
WIS 12 (+1) \par
Multiattack. The ape makes two fist attacks. \par
CHA 7 (-2) \par
Fist. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage. \par
Rock. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 25/50 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage.\b\fs32\par
Blink Dog\par
\b0\fs22 Medium fey, lawful good \par
Armor Class 13 Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4) Speed 40ft. \par
STR 12 (+1) \par
DEX 17 (+3) \par
CON 12 (+1) \par
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5 Senses passive Perception 13 \par
INT 10 (+0) \par
WIS 13 (+1) \par
CHA 11 (+0) \par
Languages Blink Dog, understands Sylvan but can't speak it Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) \par
Keen Hearing and Smell. The dog has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell. \par
ACTIONS \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) piercing damage. \par
Teleport (Recharge 4-6). The dog magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 40 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Before or after teleporting, the dog can make one bite attack. \par
A blink dog takes its name from its ability to blink in and out of existence, a talent it uses to aid its attacks and to avoid harm. Blink dogs harbor a long-standing hatred for displacer beasts and attack them on sight. \b\fs32\par
Boar\par
\b0\fs22 Medium beast, unaligned \par
Armor Class 11 (natural armor) Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2) Speed 40ft. \par
STR 13 (+1) \par
DEX 11 (+0) \par
CON 12 (+1) \par
Senses passive Perception 9 LanguagesChallenge 1/4 (50 XP) \par
INT 2 (-4) \par
WIS 9 (-1) \par
CHA 5, (~3) \par
Charge. If the boar moves at least 20 feet straight toward a \'b7 target and then hits it with a tusk attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 3 (1 d6) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 11 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. \par
Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the boar takes 7 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, it is reduced to 1 hit point instead. \par
ACTIONS \par
Tusk. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (ld6 + 1) slashing damage. \b\fs32\par
Phase Spider\par
\b0\fs22 Large monstrosity, unaligned \par
Armor Class 13 (natural armor) Hit Points 32 (5d10 + 5) 'Speed 30ft., climb 30 ft. \par
STR 15 (+2) \par
DEX 15 (+2) \par
Skills Stealth +6 \par
CON 12 (+1) \par
INT 6 (-2) \par
WIS 10 (+0) \par
Senses darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 10 LanguagesChallenge 3 (700 XP) \par
CHA 6 (-2) \par
Ethereal jaunt. As a bonus action, the spider can magically shift from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane, or vice versa. \par
Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check. \par
Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing. \par
ACTIONS \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage, and the target must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the poison damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, the target is stable but poisoned for 1 hour, even after regaining hit points, and is paralyzed while poisoned in this way. \par
A phase spider possesses the magical ability to phase in and out of the Ethereal Plane. It seems to appear out of nowhere and quickly vanishes after attacking. Its movement on the Ethereal Plane before coming back to the Material Plane makes it seem like it can teleport. \b\fs32\par
Quipper\par
\b0\fs22 Tiny beast, unaligned \par
Armor Class 13 Hit Points 1 (1d4- 1) Speed 0 ft., swim 40ft. \par
STR DEX 2 (-4) 16 (+3) \par
CON 9 (- 1) \par
INT 1 (-5) \par
WIS 7 (- 2) \par
Senses darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 8 LanguagesChallenge 0 (10 XP) \par
CHA 2 (-4) \par
Blood Frenzy. The quipper has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points. \par
Water Breathing. The quipper can breathe only underwater. \par
ACTIONS \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one target. Hit: 1 piercing damage. \par
A quipper is a carnivorous fish with sharp teeth. Quippers can adapt to any aquatic environment, including cold subterranean lakes. They frequently gather in swarms; the statistics for a swarm of quippers appear later in this appendix. \b\fs32\par
Bandit\par
\b0\fs22 BANDIT Medium humanoid (any race), any non-lawful alignment \par
Armor Class 12 (leather armor) Hit Points 11 (2d8 + 2) Speed 30ft. \par
STR 11 (;t-0) \par
DEX 12 (+1) \par
CON 12 (+1) \par
Senses passive Perception 10 \par
INT 10 (+0) \par
WIS 10 (+0) \par
Languages any one language (usually Common) Challenge 1/8 (25 XP) \par
ACTIONS \par
CHA 10 .(:tO) \par
Scimitar. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one' target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) slashing damage. \par
Light Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 80 ft./320ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage. \par
ARCHMt\\GE \par
343 \par
344 \par
Bandits rove in gangs and are sometimes led by thugs, veterans, or spellcasters. Not all bandits are evil. Oppression, drought, disease, or famine can often drive otherwise honest folk to a life of banditry. Pirates are bandits of the high seas. They might be freebooters interested only in treasure and murder, or they might be privateers sanctioned by the crown to attack and plunder an enemy nation's vessels. \b\fs32\par
Owlbear\par
\b0\fs22 Large monstrosity, unaligned \par
Armor Class 13 (natural armor) Hit Points 59 (7d10 + i 1) Speed 40ft. \par
STR 20 (+5) \par
DEX 12 (+1) \par
Skills Perception +3 \par
CON 17 (+3) \par
INT 3 (- 4) \par
WIS 12 (+1) \par
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 languages Challenge 3 (700 XP) \par
CHA 7 (-2) \par
Keen Sight and Smell. The owl bear has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight or smell. \par
ACTIONS \par
Multiattack. The owl bear makes two attacks: one with its beak and one with its claws. \par
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) piercing damage. \par
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) slashing damage. \b\fs32\par
Commoner\par
\b0\fs22 Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment \par
Armor Class 10 Hit Points 4 (1d8) Speed 30ft. \par
STR 10 (+0) \par
DEX 10 (+0) \par
CON 10 (+0) \par
Senses passive Perception 10 \par
INT 10 (+0) \par
WIS 10 (+0) \par
Languages any one language (usually Common) Challenge 0 (10 XP) \par
ACTIONS \par
CHA 10 (+0) \par
Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage. \par
Commoners include peasants, serfs, slaves, servants, pilgrims, merchants, artisans, and hermits. \b\fs32\par
Crawling Claw\par
\b0\fs22 Tiny undead, neutral evil \par
Armor Class 12 Hit Points 2 (ld4) Speed 20 ft., climb 20ft. \par
STR 13 (+1) \par
DEX 14 (+2) \par
CON 11 (+0) \par
Damage Immunities poison \par
INT 5 (- 3) \par
WIS 10 (+0) \par
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, poisoned Senses blind sight 30 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive Perception 10 Languages understands Common but can't speak Challenge 0 (10 XP) \par
Turn Immunity. The claw is immune to effects that turn undead. \par
ACT IONS \par
CHA 4 (- 3) \par
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning or slashing damage (claw's choice). \b\fs32\par
Zombie\par
\b0\fs22 Medium undead, neutral evil\b\fs32\par
\b0\fs22 Armor Class 8 Hit Points 22 (3d8 + 9) \'b7 Speed 20 ft. \par
STR 13 (+1) \par
DEX 6 (-2) \par
Saving Throws Wis +0 \par
CON 16 (+3) \par
Damage Immunities poison Condition Immunities poisoned \par
INT 3 (-4) \par
WIS 6 (- 2) \par
CHA 5 (- 3) \par
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 8 Languages understands the languages it knew in life but can't speak Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) \par
Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the zombie to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 +the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the zombie drops to 1 hit point instead. \par
ACTIONS \par
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage.\b\fs32\par
Tarrasque\par
\b0\fs22 Gargantuan monstrosity (titan), unaligned \par
Armor Class 25 (natural armor) Hit Points 676 (33d20 + 330) Speed 40ft. \par
STR 30 (+10) \par
DEX 11 (+0) \par
CON 30 (+10) \par
INT 3 (- 4) \par
\'b7 Saving Throws lnt +5, Wis +9, Cha +9 \par
WIS 11 (+0) \par
CHA 11 (+0) \par
Damage Immunities fire, poison; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from non magical weapons Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, paralyzed, poisoned Senses blindsight 120ft., passive Perception 10 Languages Challenge 30 (155,000 XP) \par
Legendary Resistance (3JDay). If the tarrasque fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead. \par
Magic Resistance. The tarrasque has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. \par
Reflective Carapace. Any time the tarrasque is targeted by a magic missile spell, a line spell, or a spell that requires a ranged attack roll, roll a d6. On a 1 to 5, the tarrasque is unaffected. On a 6, the tarrasque is unaffected, and the effect is reflected back at the caster as though it originated from the tarrasque, turning the caster into the target. \par
Siege Monster. The tarrasque deals double damage to objects and structures. \par
ACTIONS \par
Multiattack. The tarrasque can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes five attacks: one with its bite, two with its claws, one with its horns, and one with its tail. It can use its Swallow instead of its bite. \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: + 19 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 36 (4d1 2 + 10) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 20). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and the tarrasque can't bite another target. \par
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 15ft., one target. Hit: 28 (4d8 + 10) slashing damage. \par
Horns. Melee Weapon Attack: +19 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 32 (4d10 + 10) piercing damage. \par
Tail. Melee Weapon Attack:+ 19 to hit, reach 20ft., one target. Hit: 24 (4d6 + 1 0) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. \par
Frightful Presence. Each creature ofthe tarrasque's choice within 120 feet of it and aware of it must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the tarrasque is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the tarrasque's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours. \par
Swallow. The tarrasque makes one bite attack against a Large or smaller creature it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target takes the bite's damage, the target is swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outsjde the tarrasque, and it takes 56 (l6d6) acid damage at the start of each of the tarrasque's turns. If the tarrasque takes 60 damage or more on a single turn from a creature inside it, the tarrasque must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate all swallowed creatures, which fall prone in a space within 10 feet of the tarrasque. If the tarrasque dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 30 feet of movement, exiting prone. \b\fs32\par
Dragon Turtle\par
\b0\fs22 Gargantuan dragon, neutral \par
Armor Class 20 tnatural armor) Hit Points 341 (22d20 + 110) Speed 20ft., swim 40ft. \par
STR 25 (+7) \par
DEX 10 (+0) \par
CON 20 (+5) \par
INT 10 (+0) \par
Saving Throws Dex +5, Con +10, Wis +6 Damage Resistances fire \par
WIS 12 (+1) \par
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11 Languages Aquan, Draconic Challenge 17 (18,000 XP) \par
CHA 12 (+1) \par
Amphibious. The dragon turtle can breathe air and water. \par
ACTIONS \par
Multiattack. The dragon turtle makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws. It can make one tail attack in place of its two claw attacks. \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15ft., one target. Hit: 26 (3d12 + 7) piercing damage. \par
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) slashing damage. \par
Tail. Melee Weapon Attack:+ 12 to hit, reach 15 ft., one target. Hit: 26 (3d12 + 7) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 10 feet away from the dragon turtle and knocked prone. \par
Steam Breath (Recharge 5-6). The dragon turtle exhales scalding steam in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 52 (1Sd6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Being underwater doesn't grant resistance against this damage.\b\fs32\par
Gargoyle\par
\b0\fs22 Medium elemental, chaotic evil \par
Armor Class 15 (natural armor) Hit Points 52 (7d8 + 21) Speed 30 ft., fly 60ft. \par
STR 15 (+2) \par
DEX 11 (+0) \par
CON 16 (+3) \par
INT 6 (- 2) \par
WIS 11 (+0) \par
CHA 7 (- 2) \par
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from non magical weapons that aren't adamantine Damage Immunities poison Condition Immunities exhaustion, petrified, poisoned Senses darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 10 Languages Terran Challenge 2 (450 XP) \par
False Appearance. While the gargoyle remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from an inanimate statue. \par
ACTIO NS \par
Multiattack. The gargoyle makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its claws. \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. \par
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) slashing damage. \par
' \b\fs32\par
BROWN BEAR\par
\b0\fs22 Large beast, unaligned \par
Armor Class 11 (natural armor) Hit Points 34 (4d10 + 12) Speed 40ft., climb 30ft. \par
STR 19 (+4) \par
DEX 10 (+0) \par
Skills Perception +3 \par
CON 16 (+3) \par
Senses passive Perception 13 LanguagesChallenge 1 (200 XP) \par
INT 2 (- 4) \par
WIS 13 (+1) \par
CHA 7 (-2) \par
Keen Smell. The bear has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. \par
ACTIONS \par
Multiattack. The bear makes two attacks: one with its bite and one with its claws. \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. \par
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. \b\fs32\par
GNOLL\b0\par
\fs22 Medium humanoid (gno/1), chaotic evil \par
Armor Class 15 (hide armor, shield) Hit Points 22 (5d8) Speed 30ft. \par
STR 14 (+2) \par
DEX 12 (+1) \par
CON 11 (+0) \par
INT 6 (- 2) \par
WIS 10 (+0) \par
Senses darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 10 Languages Gnoll Challenge 1/2 (100 XP) \par
CHA 7 (-2) \par
Rampage. When the gnoll reduces a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack on its turn, the gnoll can take a bonus action to move up to half its speed and make a bite attack. \par
ACTIONS \par
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. \par
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 20J60 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or 6 (1 d8 + 2) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. \par
Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, range 150J600 ft. , one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage. \par
}
 